---
The Metamorphosis

Woke up in the morning just after divorcing,
a horrible chitinous being
Took three hours in the morning to open the door
to go and try to sell people whatever they need
So round noon I scurried off to the bar round the block
To find other such roaches worth seeing
I arrived at the door just to find out what's more
Is the doorperson only spoke Greek

After pantomime to explain to the bouncer's agreement
Why my form didn't match my ID
Only speaking in half thought-out parables and lectures
And no other arthropods to be seen
Who could interpret the riddles streaming out of my consciousnes
Of prejudicially biased conceit
So I just thought to myself in broken up stories
And I just had a couple more drinks

Could freeing myself from that mismatch of souls arrived at
In deference to the normative form
Have made me the thing that sits drinking today in the corner
Alone on a Wednesday at 4?
I sat rocking unstably in booth made for humans
I was drinking my beer with a straw
The upshot of ugliness and mandibular mismatch:
My first glass still in shards on the floor

But freed from the guidelines of institutional courtship
I saw them sitting there at the bar
With glasses, a brew, and The Plague by Camus
A bookish and ravishing mate
So I clumsily approached--walking's different sans toes
And I said what I wanted to say
But again gibberish came out of my horrible mouth
And I sprayed pungent juice on their leg

I dejectedly left and began to walk home
Trailing the last of my conjugal fluid
Cursing the accident of quantum mechanics
that had found me here in this new body
And wondering why I sprayed odorous secretions
When I started to feel a bit naughty
I longed and I yearned for the peaceful embrace
Of the routine of my life as a human

Was I really unhappy? Was I really unwell?
Had I made such a terrible choice?
Would I rather be human and checking the boxes
Than as an insect finding my voice?
Am I really just lousy at communicative paperwork?
Am I just wandering, empathically inept?
Was I coerced? Did I choose? And what did I lose?
By accepting constraint where I slept?

Arriving back home, sticky, sad and alone
I fumbled with the door for a minute
Before resigning to failure and embracing my fate
And my novel and terrifying features
I sat in the quiet and jaundicing sodium hue of the porchlight
The lesson today was just clear
Rememember you'll be so much more lucky than I was
By adhereing whatever the cost to the proper procedure
